<div id="page-show" class="container">

<div class="row">

<div class="col-md-8 col-md-offset-2">

<div class="page-content">

<div data-ng-non-bindable="">

# Requirements

<div style="clear:left;">

</div>

### Language

There are fansub groups for almost every language in the world. So while
anyone is welcome to read and use this textbook, I recommend applying
your skills in a fansub group centered on your native language. Of
course, there are some roles that don't require any language skills to
complete them. But you will still need to communicate with the other
members of your chosen fansub group and a language barrier can make that
difficult. 

### Hardware

Every fansubber will need a computer. Some roles will have higher
requirements. Below are some **minimum *recommended* computer
specifications** based on the role. Can you do the job with less than
what's below? Probably, but it could make your job much harder than it
needs to be.

  - **Timer**
      - One of the most forgiving roles in fansubbing for computer
        hardware. 
      - **OS**: Windows 7, Mac OS X 10.7, Linux
      - **Screen**: 720p
      - **CPU**: dual-core \>2Ghz 
          - Computer should be able to playback HD anime with
            subtitles. 
      - **Memory**: 4GB  
          - Aegisub loads the entire video into memory. With larger HD
            videos being standard today, this could be up to several GB.
      - **Storage**: 50GB available
      - **Mouse**: recommended
      - **Internet**: 25 Mbps download
  - **Typesetter**  
      - The middle of the road in terms of required computer hardware. 
      - **OS**: Windows 7, Mac OS X 10.7, Linux
          - 64bit recommended
      - **Screen**: 1080p
      - **CPU**: dual-core \>2.5GHz (quad-core \>3GHz recommended)
          - Computer should be able to playback modern fansubbed anime
            releases with high settings.  
      - **Memory**: 8GB  
          - Aegisub loads the entire video into memory. With larger HD
            videos being standard today, this could be up to several GB.
          - Windows loads installed fonts into memory on boot. For
            typesetters, the font library could grow to be several GB.
      - **Storage**: 100GB available
      - **Mouse**: required (do not even try to use a touchpad or a
        touch-sensitive screen)
      - **Internet**: 25 Mbps download, 5 Mbps upload
  - **Encoder**
      - The most demanding role in terms of computer hardware.
      - The speed and capabilities of the computer directly correlate to
        encode times and the stability of encoding tools. 
      - **OS**: Windows 7, Mac OS X 10.7, Modern distro Linux
          - 64bit required
      - **Screen**: 1080p
          - IPS panels highly recommended for color correctness. 
          - VA panels highly discouraged.
      - **CPU**: quad-core \>4GHz 
          - More cores and/or higher speed are better. (e.g. AMD Ryzen,
            Threadripper or Intel Core i7+)
          - **CPU Requirements**:  
              - Hyperthreading
              - AVX2
              - SSE4
      - **Memory**: 8GB  
          - Memory can be a bottleneck when encoding. More, faster
            memory is always better for encoding rigs. 
      - **Storage**: 500GB available
          - Encoders sometimes deal with files up to 40GB each and
            regularly with ones between 1GB and 8GB and may be required
            to retain these files for a long time. 
      - **Internet**: 25 Mbps download, 10 Mbps upload (faster
        recommended)
  - **Editor**
      - At least the same as the Timer role. 
  - **Quality Checker**
      - At least the same as the Typesetter role.
  - **Translator / Translation Checker**  
      - At least the same as the Timer role.

### Software

Every role will have different required software, but it is recommended
for every role to have installed [Aegisub](http://www.aegisub.org). It
is highly recommended to use line0's builds, which can be found
[here](https://files.line0.eu/builds/Aegisub/). They include a
preinstalled automation script package manager and several critical
fixes to aegisub that have not been merged into the official
application.

More specifics will be presented in the chapter devoted to each role.

### Programming

Knowledge of some programming languages can be extremely useful for
fansubbing, though it is not required to begin learning. Specifically,
Lua and Moonscript are useful for Typesetters. Encoders will find that
Python is used to interact with VapourSynth, so learning it ahead of
time will be to their advantage.

</div>

-----

Revision \#14  
Created <span title="Sat, Aug 19, 2017 1:00 AM">6 months ago</span> by
[begna112](http://34.234.192.3/user/3)  
Updated <span title="Fri, Sep 15, 2017 7:26 PM">6 months ago</span> by
[begna112](http://34.234.192.3/user/3)

</div>

</div>

</div>

</div>
