# Roles

 There are 8 (sometimes 9) major roles in every fansub group. They are:

1.  **Encoder**
2.  **Timer**
3.  **Typesetter**
4.  **Editor**
5.  **Quality Checker**
6.  Optional: Translator
7.  Optional: Translation Checker
8.  Optional: Karaoke Effects Creator
9.  Optional: Project Leader

In this guide, we will only be providing in-depth guides for the
Encoder, Timer, and Typesetter roles. However, Quality Checkers are
often expected to be familiar with most or all of the roles in order to
recognize errors.

### Encoder

Time commitment per episode: 20 minutes - 2 hours active (4-12 hours
inactive)

Encoders are responsible for the audio and video. They will generally be
provided with one or more video sources and are expected to produce the
best video possible within reason.

This is done with a **frame-by-frame video processor** such as AviSynth
and VapourSynth, a **video encoder** such as x264 or x265, and **audio
tools** such as eac3to, qaac, and FLAC. This is not a comprehensive
list, but it does represent the broad categories of tools required.

Encodes are expected to have a high level of skill and understanding of
video concepts and tools. It is perhaps the most technically challenging
role in fansubbing. However, much of the work is repeatable as each
episode in a show will usually be very similar to every other one. It
will also get easier over time as you become more familiar with the
concepts and tools.

One last note about encoding: there are as many opinions about how to
fix video problems as there are encoders. Encoders can and often do
become contentious about their work, theories, and scripts. It's
important to keep in mind that a disagreement is not always an insult
and more experienced encoders often just want to help and provide
feedback. The important part is the result\!

### Typesetter

Time commitment per episode: 20 minutes - 8+ hours (dependent on number
and difficulty of signs)

Typesetters (abbreviated *TSes*) are responsible for the visual
presentation of text that is on-screen and has been translated. These
are called *signs*. 

For example, given this scene and a translation of "Adachi Fourth Public
High
School"...

[![\[DameDesuYo\]-Eromanga-sensei---01-(1920x1080-10bit-AAC)-\[05CB518E\].mkv\_snapshot\_03.11\_\[2017.08.18\_21.14.55\].jpg](images/cnvimage100.png)](http://34.234.192.3/uploads/images/gallery/2017-08-Aug/%5BDameDesuYo%5D-Eromanga-sensei---01-\(1920x1080-10bit-AAC\)-%5B05CB518E%5D.mkv_snapshot_03.11_%5B2017.08.18_21.14.55%5D.jpg)

the Typesetter would be expected to produce something like
this:

[![\[DameDesuYo\]-Eromanga-sensei---01-(1920x1080-10bit-AAC)-\[05CB518E\].mkv\_snapshot\_03.11\_\[2017.08.18\_21.14.43\].jpg](images/cnvimage101.png)](http://34.234.192.3/uploads/images/gallery/2017-08-Aug/%5BDameDesuYo%5D-Eromanga-sensei---01-\(1920x1080-10bit-AAC\)-%5B05CB518E%5D.mkv_snapshot_03.11_%5B2017.08.18_21.14.43%5D.jpg)

Almost sign the Typesetter works on will be unique, requiring ingenuity,
an imagination, a sense of style and a high degree of attention to
detail. The Typesetter's goal is to produce something that integrates so
well into the video that the viewer does not know it is actually part of
the subtitles.

The sign above is actually one of the simplest that the Typesetter might
have to deal with. It is *static*, meaning it does not move, and has
plenty of room around it to place the translation. Other signs will be
much more difficult. For example [this scene from Kobayashi-san Chi no
Maid Dragon.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4BVgygZe7WY)

Though it may be hard to believe, the typesetting on the right side of
the screen was done entirely with *softsubs* (using Aegisub), subtitles
that can be turned off and on in the video player as compared
to *hardsubs *(using Adobe After Effects) which cannot. Each group and
language "scene" will have different standards in regards to soft and
hardsubs. For example, in the English scene hardsubs are considered
highly distasteful, whereas in the German scene they are readily
accepted. 

Something to remember about typesetting is that there is no one way to
typeset a sign. There are, however, incorrect ways that are not visually
pleasing, do not match the original well, are difficult to read, or are
too *heavy* (meaning computer resource intensive). 

### Timer

Time commitment per episode: 20 minutes - 4 hours

The Timer is responsible for when the text representing spoken dialogue
shows up on screen.

The timing of subtitles is much more important and you might assume. The
entrance and exit times of the subtitles or a fluid transition from one
line to the next can make a large impact on the "watchability" of the
subtitles and the episode as a whole. Take, for example, [this clip from
Eromanga-sensei](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DFYvoGVFfX4).

On the left are the official subtitles from Amazon's AnimeStrike and on
the right is a fansub release. There are many problems with Amazon's
subtitles such as entering and exiting the screen up to two seconds
late, presenting 4-5 lines on screen at once, and not separating
dialogue based on speaking character. These problems detract from the
viewing experience, drawing attention to the appearance of the subtitles
and distracting from the story and video. 

### Editor

Time commitment per episode: 2-4+ hours

The editor is responsible for making sure that the script reads well.
Depending on the source of the script, this may mean grammatical
corrections and some rewording to address recommendations from the
Translation Checker. However, more often than not, the job will entail
rewriting, rewording, and characterizing large portions of the script.
Each group will have different expectations of an Editor in terms of the
type, style, number of changes made. The editor may also be responsible
for making corrections recommended by the Translation and Quality
Checkers. 

### Quality Checker

 Time commitment per episode: 30 minutes to 4 hours (depending on your
own standards)

Quality Checkers (abbreviated *QCs*) are often the last eyes on an
episode before it is released. They are responsible inspecting the
overall quality of every aspect of a show including, timing,
typesetting, encode, and edit. Quality Checkers are expected to be well
versed in every role and able to critique them. Each group has a
different approach to how the Quality Checker completes their work. For
example, one group might require an organized "QC report" of recommended
changes and required fixes, while other groups may prefer the Quality
Checker to make changes directly to the script, if they can.

### Translator & Translation Checker

Time commitment per episode: 1-3 hours for TLC, 4+ hours for an original
translation (dependent on the skill of the TL/C and the difficulty of
the show)

The job of the Translator (abbreviated *TL*) and the Translation Checker
(abbreviated *TLC*) is to translate and ensure the translational quality
of the script and translated signs. This is perhaps an obvious
statement, but it bears explaining just in case. Today, many shows are
*simulcast* by one or more companies, meaning scripts will be available
immediately after or soon after airing in Japan. In these cases, some
fansub groups may choose to edit and translation check the simulcast
script rather than translate it from scratch. This depends almost
entirely on the quality of the simulcast. Fixing a bad simulcast script
may be harder than doing an *original translation (abbreviated OTL)*.
Finally, translators are responsible for transcribing and translating
opening, ending, and insert songs as well. 

### Karaoke Effect Creator

Time commitment: several hours, once or twice per season

The Karaoke Effect Creator (always referred to as the *KFX*) styles and
adds effects to the lyrics and sometimes romaji and/or kanji for
opening, ending, and insert songs. This can be very similar to
typesetting but utilizes a different set of tools and can be highly
programming-oriented.

-----

Revision \#14
Created <span title="Sat, Aug 19, 2017 1:52 AM">6 months ago</span> by
[begna112](http://34.234.192.3/user/3)
Updated <span title="Fri, Sep 15, 2017 7:37 PM">6 months ago</span> by
[begna112](http://34.234.192.3/user/3)

